# Announcements
  * Quiz next week (ThFS)
  * Study journal check in
  * Reply to group project email

# Jesus the Miracle Worker (Mark 1-4)

## Who is Mark?
  * Maybe John Mark
  * Close associate of Peter
  * Had a small falling out with Peter
  * Accoring to tradition, founded the Church in
    Egypt

### Why did Mark write his gospel?
Peter gave an oral presentation, then leaves.

The people go to Mark because they want a record
of the teachings that had been given.

Peter hears about the writings of Mark and
authorizes it.

### More about the Gospel of Mark
"Testimony of St. Mark"

Focused on Gentiles in Rome

Fast-moving

More about deeds than sayings

No birth of Jesus

## The Baptism of Jesus
Christ chooses John the Baptist because he has the
authority.

John was somewhat wild. Ate locusts and wild
honey, wore a camel's skin.

Some think that Jesus' baptism by John was a sign
of subjigation.

## The Parable of the Growing Seed (Mark 4:26-29)
Sometimes we throw seeds into the "ground" of
someone else. We don't know how it grows (the Lord
does his own work), but we need to watch it, and
when there's fruit, we need to thrust in our
sickle.

## The Paralytic (Mark 2:1-12)
Four friends are trying to get their friend to
Jesus. They open up a hole in the roof and drop
their friend in front of Jesus. The scribes are
there (they interpret the law). Jesus only says
"thy sins be forgiven thee".

**Why? What is the connection between physical
healing and forgiveness of sins?**
  * Show priority of sins over sickness
  * James 5:14-15 - brings the sick to the elders,
    they shall receive healing, as well as
    forgiveness of their sins

The scribes don't believe it, Jesus heals the man.
