---
title: "Notes: Oct. 28, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - john
published_date: "2021-10-28 18:49:42 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Announcements
Group project due by the end of the day

Next exegesis due Monday, Oct. 8

### Pool of Bethesda
There was a sheep market, by the sheep market a
pool

There were five porches (columnades)

Columnades - provides shelter from the sun and
rain

Usually a pool has four porches, but not Bethesda

Bethesda is a double pool

Water flows from one pool into the other by a
sluice (may have caused a bubbling)

Verse 4 - added in later texts, probably to
explain why everyone was there

#### Reaction
Caused a problem because can't carry the bed on
the Sabbath

"Who was it?" "I don't know..."

Jesus meets up with this man *in the temple*

Where is one of the first places this healed man
wants to go? *The temple* (probably to offer
sacrifices or show gratitude in other ways)

Christ heals him spiritually

"Don't sin, you know what physical suffering feels
like, spiritual suffering will be even worse."

The man returns and tells them that it was *Jesus*

### Son of God
The Father works on the Sabbath, so does the Son.

Causes trouble.

Christ doesn't claim to be better than God. He is
just sent. He only teaches what the Father sent
him to teach, he only does what the Father wants
him to do.

Though he treats himself as subordinate to the
Father, he also has a lot of great power that
comes with his relationship with God.

I'm not God the Father, but He is going to give me
power to do amazing things.

### Bread of Life
One of the 7 dialogues (signs/semeia)

He's just fed them food. He leaves, they follow,
they want more *FOOD*.

Begin conversation about Moses and the Israelites.

"Moses gave them manna, what can you do?" (Jesus
was actually the one that provided the manna)

"You guys just want more food. Those who ate manna
died. I am the Living Bread, which lets you live
forever."

"Eat my flesh and drink my blood." - "Um, I'm not
cannabilistic, peace out."

*\*Many leave\**

This is where John emphasizes the sacrament 

Jesus turns to his apostles, "Will you leave me,
too?"

"But, where will we go...?"

We need to recognized the source of our blessings,
of our life.

