---
title: "Notes: Oct. 14, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - luke
published_date: "2021-10-14 18:51:14 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Jesus to Nazareth
Luke 4:16 - "*as his custom was*, he went into the
synagogue on the Sabbath day"

He's given the scrolls to read from, Isaiah 61:1-2

It's about the Messiah preaching the gospel to the
captives (the "anointed one")

Stops at "the acceptable year of the Lord" -
describes his *first* coming. "The day of
vengeance of our God" is his *second* coming.

Sits down, says "this is talking about me."

Nobody likes that. "Isn't this Joseph's son?"

"No prophet is accepted in his home
country. You're just rejecting me."

The people *really* don't like that, try to throw
him off a cliff.

Jesus "goes his own way."

### Lucan Interpolation
Luke follows Mark's structure, but also inserts
parts in between.

Perean Ministry (parts in Luke that aren't in Mark)

### Mary & Martha
*Martha* is the one receiving Jesus into her
house.

Jesus never said that Martha was doing a bad
thing. The only reason that he said something was
because Martha came up to him and complained to
him. He never told her to "come sit down and
listen," nor did he tell Mary to go help her
sister. Both were good things. It's just about
*priorities*.

### Seventy
Shake the dust off of your feet if they don't
accept you.

Help with administrative aspects of the
church. They help out the apostles.

While they're out, Jesus condemns Chorazin,
Bethsaida, and Capernaum (Jesus' ministry
triangle). He served mostly there, but he was
rejected by them.

### Allegorization of the Parable of the Good Samaritan
Jesus taught a parable, it had one message. Then,
other kinds of ideas were drawn from it by early
Christians.

"Who is my neighbor?" I don't want responsibility
for *everyone*.

Jesus begins the parable.

A man on the side of the road.

A priest passes. A Levite passes. Both are on
their way to the temple and can't risk being
unclean.

A Samaritan passes. He stops and helps the man. He
takes him to an inn and leaves him there with the
promise to come back.
