# Announcements

## Group Projects
Be separated into groups (4-5)

Pick an interest, you'll be grouped with others of
the same interest

First thing, find out what you want to do for your
project (focused around text of the Gospels)

No final exam, instead class presentations

Class presentations Dec. 17th

Write-up + class presentation

### Ideas

* STEM - Medical Journal
* Social Sciences - Political Powers
* Social Sciences - Jewish Oral Law
* Social Sciences - Social impact of Jesus in his
  day and in ours
* Visual Arts - Portrait of Jesus
* Visual Arts - Survey of Pictures of Jesus
* Literature - Personal Monologues
* Literature - Poetry
* Doctrinal - Beatitudes Children's Book
* Doctrinal - Christlike attributes in each Gospel

### Write-up
Everyone answers first part together
  * What did you do?
  * What was the goal?
  * What aspects of the content did you master?
  * Upload some form of the project

Individually
  * What worked well? What didn't?
  * Did everyone do their part?
  * How much was together? How much was alone?
  * How does it apply to you?

### Key Points
1. Collaborate, collaborate, collaborate!!! Should
   have regular meetings throughout the
   semester. Maybe at least once every biweek.
2. Focus on *texts in the Gospels*.
3. How do you want to present it?
4. Bring your best skills to the project!


# Lecture

**Luke** seems to be writing to Theophilus. Could be a
general audience (Theophilus = friend of
God). Could be a friend of Luke. Could even be a
benefactor paying Luke to do his work. Luke
focuses on *Mary*.

**John** uses "in the beginning" - reflects us to
Genesis. Establishes Jesus as the creator of the
world, He was with God. Then skips straight to his
ministry.

**Matthew** focuses on the royal line of
Jesus. Uses geneology. Often connects to Abraham
and David.

**Mark** is clear. First verse, *Jesus is the
**Son of God**. Mark is a fast-paced narrative
that lays it all out there.

## Synoptic vs. John
Matthew, Mark, Luke share their sources (Mark
being a source for the other two). Not just what
they're telling, but how their telling is similar.

92% of John is unique. He does his own thing.

Every Gospel is really a *testimony*. Each has its
own perspective to share, but they're all talking
about the same Jesus.
