---
title: "Notes: Nov. 30, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - the-final-week
published_date: "2021-11-30 19:51:58 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Christ Crucified
Christ - a stumbling block for the Jews (had an
image of a Messiah that would come and save
them) and foolishness for the Greeks (Gods
shouldn't be able to be killed by men). He wasn't
how they thought he should be.

### Importance of Cross for Latter-day Saints
Challenging relationship with cross. De-emphasize
the cross in order to separate ourselves from
other religions. However, causes us to be seen as
"not Christian".

Though not a big part of material culture, it
still is a major part of our beliefs.

So why is the cross important to us?

Sometimes we say that "we don't carry the weapon
of death around" - not why others carry the cross
around.

"He is risen" - an empty cross represents the same
thing.

However, the cross is important to us because:
  * it's such an integral part of the
    Atonement. Christ himself talked about his
    suffering on the cross.
  * it's a symbol of God's love for us.
  * it's an invitation to take up our cross (NT).
  * the marks of the crucifixion were so important
    that Christ kept them after receiving a
    resurrected body.

### Betrayal
**Why did the Jews need Judas?**
  * legitimacy (if an apostle would betray him...)
  * knows where to find him in quiet places
  * maybe a part of the Atonement (needed to feel
    what it was like to have a close associate
    betray him)

Not a Roman arrest, but a Jewish Official arrest.

Judas says, "Hail, Rabbi (master)" and kisses
him - a hollow expression of "love"

"Friend, wherefore art thou come?" - Judas, I've
only been a friend to you, and now you come for
me?

**Why did Judas do it?**
  * Maybe he wanted Jesus prove that he was the
    Messiah in front of the officials
  * Maybe he didn't believe in Jesus anymore.

Whatever the case, it obviously didn't turn out
the way Judas wanted it to.

### Trial
A lot of witnesses, don't agree with each other.

Finally, asks him if he is the Christ.

He responds in the affirmative, claiming that he
will come as the Son of man later in his glory.

### Denial
In the courtyard, Peter is accused of being with
Jesus.

Not denying that Christ is the Son of God, just
that he was associated with him. May have been a
weak moment. But he became a lot more bold after
this.

### Crucifixion
Taken to Pilate, taken to Herod, taken back to
Pilate.

Pilate condemns him for being King of the Jews.

Crucifixion was a terrible form of punishment,
usually for non-Roman-citizens, slaves.

Chose the most crowded roads to make an example to
others.

#### Cause of Death
Collapse of lungs

Heart is stressed, eventually fails

