---
title: "Study Journal Check-In #1"
published_date: "2021-09-17 04:09:57 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
tags:
  - homework
  - sj-check-in
---
### Have you used your scripture journal with each bloc of reading in Mark 1-10?

No. I did not use it for the first bloc, Mark 1-4.

### What are two additional resources that have enhanced your study?

One resource that has improved my study of the
scriptures is the [New Testament Student
Manual](https://www.churchofjesuschrist.org/study/manual/new-testament-student-manual/introduction-to-mark/chapter-12?lang=eng). I've
really enjoyed using this resource because it
helps to explain a lot of confusing elements in
New Testament. It gives cultural context, and it
provides sources to back it up. It also helps to
clarify doctrinal points in the text and supports
them with talks given by General Authorities, as
well as other religious sources. The manual really
helps to bring everything together into one place.

Another resource that has helped is [The Gospel
according to Mark: A New
Rendition](https://byustudies.byu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2020/03/mark_ebook.pdf).
This resource from the BYU Religious Studies
Center is helpful because it gives a version of
the story in modern day English. It helps to
clarify some of the older, more unclear English in
the Bible. It also gives some interesting
differences in translation. For example, in Luke
9, when the disciples of Jesus ask about why they
weren't able to cast out the spirit that possessed
the child, his response in the KJV mentions
fasting *and* prayer, while his response in the
New Rendition simply mentions prayer.

### Share one insight that you have gained from your scripture study and/or from the additional resource.

One insight that I really loved from my reading
was from the moment when James and John ask if
they can have a seat at the right and left hand of
Christ in his kingdom. After responding to their
request, he explains to his disciples that the
greatest in the kingdom of God is he that serves
his fellow men. As I read this, I realized that
this is a principle that applies here, as
well.

There are many dictators or other political
leaders that get others to do things by force,
fear, or dishonesty. However, the best leaders,
and those that are most revered in history are
those that have earned the trust of those that
they lead. The best way to do this is to serve
others, to show them love, and to show them how
important they are. It's in showing others their
value that others begin to respect us and
recognize our value as well. It's in showing
others that *they* are the greatest that people
are willing to show *you* respect and help you to
do more than you could ever do alone. Thus, we see
that the greatest in the kingdom of God, he who
has reached his greatest potential is he who has
helped others to reach *their* greatest potential.

### How has this insight blessed your life, or how have you applied what you learned?

Understanding this has helped me to understand my
role as a leader in different areas of my
life. Specifically, I have seen how I can apply it
in my role as supervisor at Aloha Plate. I need to
remember that my purpose of supervisor isn't to
tell everyone what they need to do. It isn't to
micromanage everyone and ensure that everything
goes exactly the way *I* think it should go. My
purpose is to enable each employee to be able to
do the job themselves. And I need to do it with
love, instructing and directing while at the same
time showing them how important their contribution
to the team is. I need to ensure that they feel
that their efforts are appreciated and that they
feel needed. In doing so, the whole workplace will
become a more enjoyable place to work, and
everyone will be more willing to do a quality job.
