---
title: "Notes: Dec. 2, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - the-final-week
published_date: "2021-12-02 19:51:15 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Written above the cross
**Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews**

Latin - for the law

Hebrew - for the Jews

Greek - for public reading

### Statements on the Cross
Three groups:
  * Compassionate
	* "Father forgive them"
	* "Be with me in paradise"
	* "Behold thy mother"
  * Human
	* "Eli, Eli, why has thou forsaken me?"
	* "I thirst"
  * Divine
    * "It is finished"
    * "Into thy hands I commend my spirit"

### Burial

#### Joseph of Arimathea
Rich

Asks for Jesus' body, he gives up his family tomb
which had never been used

He was willing to ask to give an honorable death
to one who could be seen as an insurrectionist.

#### Nicodemus
Brings ointments and expensive spices

#### Women
Watching to see where Jesus is buried, so that
they can come back later to take care of him

#### Sabbath
Guards are placed at the tomb in order to avoid
faking his rising from the dead.

The disciples rested. Not much else is said about
that day.

However, through modern revelation (D&C 138), we
know that Christ initiated the work for the dead
during that time.

### Church of the Holy Sepluchure
Holds what most to be the site of the tomb and the
site of the crucifixion. Shared by many different
denominations.

### The Garden Tomb
The place where Latter-day Saints go, as well as
some Protestants.

However, **"He is not here--for He is risen"**.

### Resurrection
There were many witnesses of Christ's resurrection:
  * 

Jesus made *sure* that they can't deny - "touch
me, I'll eat and drink"

Christ has given us so many witnesses so that we
can have *some* form of evidence that he has been
resurrected.

#### "As it is now"
The body will come back "as it is now". If you
were an infant, you will come back as an
infant. If you were 80-years-old, you will come
back as an 80-year-old. If you were missing an
arm, you will come back without an arm.

Then, your body will develop until it reaches a
"full measure of the stature of its spirit." It's
not instantaneous, though.

We will come back in the same stature as we were
laid in the earth.

### Witnesses

### Mary Magdalene
The first witness identified.

Later, other women saw Jesus resurrected on the
way back to Jerusalem.

#### Two men on the way to Emmaus
God restrained their eyes, they don't recognize
him

He blesses and breaks bread, they see the marks on
his hands, they recognize him, he disappears

#### Peter
He appears to Peter in or near Jerusalem

#### Other appearances
1. 10 apostles
2. 11 apostles
3. Sea of Galilee (feed my sheep)
4. 500 brethren likely in Galilee
5. James
6. 11 apostles at time of ascension at Mt. Olives

**Paracletos?**

### "Feed my sheep"

### The Great Commission
All nations, every creature, including Gentiles

<!--  LocalWords:  Sepluchure
 -->
