---
title: "Notes: Sept. 21, 2021"
published_date: "2021-09-21 18:50:49 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
tags:
  - notes
  - matthew
---
### Lecture

#### Spiritual Prompting Tracking
Try to record spiritual promptings that you
receive

2 Types
  1. To do - record it, then *do it*
  2. Confirmation - confirms a gospel principle

Mid-semester writeup, semester final

Have one place that you record your promptings in,
whether a notebook or phone.

Goal is just to do it, it doesn't matter how many.

*Note:* One may find their eternal companion
through this process.

#### Matthew
Matthew was a tax collector (or publican) - they
had a bad reputation with the Jews
  * raise taxes to get money
  * work for Roman govt.

Knew Old Testament well, uses it to present Jesus
as Messiah

Likely written in Aramaic

Only mentioned by name before his call (later
called by Levi)

His gospel is written mainly for Jews in
Palestine, with the purpose to convince them that
Christ is the Messiah and King and Judge of
Men. Emphasizes "son of David".

#### Women in Jesus' Lineage
There are five women mentioned in Joseph's lineage
1. Thamar (3) - marries son of Judah, is harlot
   with Judah
2. Rachab (5) - harlot in Jericho
3. Ruth (5) - non-Israelite
4. The wife of Urias (6) - Bethsheba
5. Mary (16)

Why? It's miraculous. God's ways are above our
ways. Why Mary? Because God chose her.

The Jews would expect the Messiah to come through
the elite and powerful, but that's not how he came.

#### Joseph
Faithful, obedient, submissive, humble, spiritual

Joseph's test: what am I going to do with Mary?

He could have chosen to have her stoned, could
have made a public spectacle of her.

Instead, he chose to "put her away privily".

Joseph's role was to protect him, to guide him, to
get him on the right path.

"When Jesus was an infant, he didn't know he was a
Son of God. During his progress, it was made known
to him."

**Condescension of God**: He gave up the role of
Jehovah to become a tiny infant

#### Magi & Gifts
...
