---
title: "Notes: Nov. 2, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - john
published_date: "2021-11-02 18:52:06 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Good Shepherd

Why does Christ compare himself to a shepherd?
  * He isn't going to leave his sheep
  * The scriptures often refer to the Lord as a
    shepherd
  * The shepherd is willing to even give his life
    for the sheep
  * He knows his sheep and *is known* by his sheep

Mentions three times that he will lay down his
life for the sheep.

#### Shepherd vs. Hireling
Danger
  * Shepherd - protects
  * Hireling - flees
Ownership
  * Shepherd - owns
  * Hireling - temporary
Investment
  * Shepherd - livelihood, cares
  * Hireling - getting payed, doesn't have vested
    interest

### I AM
One of *7* "I AM" declarations

Makes reference to Exodus 3 burning bush episode

The Lord asks Moses to go back and free the
Hebrews

Moses doesn't want to, God says "I will be with
you, I will give you a sign"

"But who shall I say sent me?"

"I am that I AM" - makes reference to being
self-existent, to having always been

"Yahweh" - form of verb "to be"

...

When Christ tells the Jews that he is "I AM", they
try to stone him, they don't want to believe.

Christ doesn't allow us to say "He was a great
teacher, though he may not have been the Son of
God..." Either he is who he says he is, or he is a
lunatic or the Devil of Hell.

#### John's Pattern
1. Declaration - the truth can set you free
2. Misunderstanding - we've never been enslaved
3. Explanation - the Son of Man can set you free
   from the traps of sin

### Woman caught in adultery
Huge crowd comes riled up, asks Jesus

Jesus just pauses and draws on the ground
  * A teaching method - pause, give time for
    energy to diffuse, people to think

Puts the ball back in each of their courts, each
individual has to make the decision, "Am I free of
sin?"

Does he forgive her? *No*, he just puts her on the
path to repentance.

### Pool of Siloam
One of the times that Jesus does a physical act
with healing

Tells the man to do a physical act before he was
healed. Requires an exercise of faith.

It's similar to anointing the sick with
oil. Magical properties? No. Physical
manifestation of faith.

### Lazarus
