---
title: "Notes: Nov. 4, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - the-final-week
published_date: "2021-11-04 18:51:36 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Pool of Siloam
Was inside the walls (protected)

Was closer to the center of the city

Priests would draw water from the pool for the
Feast of the Tabernacles

Christ sent the blind man here to wash the mud off
of his face.

Had grand staircase from pool to the temple

### Lazarus
Jesus is good friends with Mary, Martha, and
Lazarus, we don't know exactly why...

Lazarus is ill, Jesus is told, doesn't go until
Lazarus is dead.

When Jesus arrives, both Mary and Martha say, "If
you had been here, Lazarus wouldn't have died."

Martha: "But I know that whatever you ask God, he
will do. I know you are the Christ."

This miracle caused a lot of problems. Gained him
many followers, spread his fame in Jerusalem.

-----

### The Last Week of Christ's Life
The most important week in history:
  * Sacrament
  * Atonement
  * Crucifixion
  * Resurrection

*Most* impact or influence
on the *largest* number of people
over the *longest* period of time

#### Events

**Sunday** - Triumphal Entry, Cleansing of the
Temple

**Monday** - Cleansing of the Temple (Mark),
Barren Fig Tree

**Tuesday** - Jesus' authority challenged,
Parables, Widow's Mite, Olivet Discourse,
Prediction of Death, Judas arranged betrayal

**Wednesday** - Not any record (maybe some things
from Tuesday)

**Thursday** - 

**Friday** - Betrayal, Arrest, Taken Before Jewish
Leaders, Trial, Crucifixion, Burial of Jesus

**Saturday** - Body in the tomb (Ministry to
Spirit World)

**Sunday** - Resurrection, Post-resurrection
Appearances

### Triumphal Entry
All gospels emphasize the "royal" aspect. The
Messianic secret isn't a secret any more.

Christ is riding on a donkey - in the same way as
Solomon entered to be anointed king.

No wonder that he's dead five days later -
completely provocative towards both Jews and
Romans

### Hosanna
Means "save now", acknowledges that the person
has the power to save

### Cleansing of the Temple
He goes into the *courtyard*, not the central
temple.

Courtyard of Gentiles - should be a house of
*prayer*, not a marketplace. Even the Gentiles
should be able to enjoy *my* house.

He takes ownership of the temple (which angers the
Jews)...

### Parable of the Marriage of King's Son


### Parable of the Wicked Husbandmen

