---
title: "Notes: Sept. 30, 2021"
published_date: "2021-09-30 18:51:55 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
tags:
  - notes
  - matthew
---
### Announcements

#### Quiz
5 short answer
15 multiple choice
Matthew 1-20

#### Exegesis Chapter
Pick a chapter from Matthew, Mark

Must have at least 4 pericopes

Must talk about the whole chapter

Cite outside sources

Model found on Learning Suite

Due Monday Oct. 11

#### Spiritual Prompting Tracking
Don't forget to do it

### Patches and Wineskin
Patches - 9:16  
Wineskins - 9:17

Why aren't your disciples fasting?  (Seems to be
talking about a fasting of mourning)

His disciples don't need to fast because it's more
like a celebratory wedding feast!

They use wineskins to create wine. Put wine in a
wineskin, the wine ferments, the wineskin
expands. Put more wine in, it ferments, the
wineskin explodes.

You need to be open-minded. Get rid of the old
traditions. If you're too rigid, it's going to
cause "spiritual ruptures".

**PROBABLY ON THE QUIZ**

### The Sign of Jonah
How long was Jonah in the whale? Three days. Same
for the Son of Man in the tomb.

**Matthew 12:38-41; 16:4**

Jonah preached and converted Ninevah. Jesus is
greater than Noah.

"They repented when a prophet came. The Son of Man
comes to you, are you repenting? No."

### Parables
**Parables** - place something besides something
else (Greek)

"The kingdom of heaven is like..."

Parable ~ analogy

**parable** - an extended metaphor in narrative,
fictional form

#### Parable vs. allegory
**allegory** - string of metaphors with individual
meaning

**parable** - single metaphor with a single
meaning

A parable can't be read in depth, it simply has a
*moral*

Why parables? Those that aren't there to learn,
won't. Those that aren't spiritually prepared
won't receive the mysteries of heaven.

#### The Parable of the Sower
Better called the Parable of the four types of
soil

What's your soil like?

#### Other Parables
Wheat and Tares + Net:
  * Similar: good, bad together
  * Different: separated now vs. later

Grain of Mustard Seed + Leaven:
  * Similar: growth of the kingdom
  * Different: outer vs. inner

Treasure in the Field + Pearl of Great Price:
  * Similar: recognition of value
  * Different: stumbling across vs. actively
    seeking

### Walk on water
Jesus walks on water, Peter wants to walk on
water, too!

Christ invites him to do so. He gets out of the
boat and starts walking, then gets scared.

"I don't think I can do this. I *shouldn't* be
able to do this.

### Syrophenician Woman
She's a gentile. She asks to be healed. Jesus says
no. "I am sent unto the House of Israel". "But I
just want a crumb". "Okay, because of your faith."

### Rock
Petra - small rock (Peter)
Petros - bedrock (church foundation)
