---
title: "Notes: Nov. 11, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - the-final-week
published_date: "2021-11-11 19:51:20 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Rapture
1 Thess. 4:13-18

Those that are dead will go up to God

Then, those that are living members of his church
will be caught up

### Olivet Discourse
Starts prophesying about his return

**We don't know exactly what will happen**

**Is Jesus a prophet?** *YES*.

Moses is promised that another prophet will appear
like him. That prophet is Jesus (see Acts, BoM).

Prophesies the destruction of the temple, "not one
stone shall be left standing."

**Questions**:
1. When shall these things be?
   * Romans end up destroying the temple in 70
     A.D. Pushed stones off the edge into the
     surrounding courtyard in order to ensure
     complete destruction of the temple.
2. What shall be the sign of thy coming and the
   end of the world?
   
Prophesies:
  * False Christs
  * Persecutions
  * Flight
  * Wars, rumors of wars
  * Earthquakes, famines, pestilences
  * Sun, moon
  * Sign of the Son of Man

### Second Coming
**Why is Christ in red apparel?**

Represents blood in Gethsemane, trodden the wine
press alone.

Contrast this age (evil, worldly power, suffering)
with the next age (new heaven, new earth, peace,
righteousness). There is some pivot point, often
considered to be the Second Coming. It will be
some form of *divine intervention*.

**eschatology** - derived from *eschaton*, meaning
the end

The end described as "birth pangs".

#### Does Christ Himself know when He will come?
Not when he's on earth, but when he goes back, he
probably knows.

#### Will all be surprised and caught unaware?
No. Like being pregnant. We don't know exactly
when it's going to happen. We know it's soon, look
for the signs.

#### Is it true that not everyone will know when the Savior has come?
There will likely be multiple Second Comings. By
the end, everyone will know.

#### When the Lord comes, who will come with him?
The righteous will follow him

#### What happens to those living on earth when he comes?
The righteous will continue to live. Not just
members of the church. Terrestrial level
people. They could come to know Christ and accept
him.

#### Is the burning spoken of in scripture literal?
Yes. It needs to be purged of all wickedness.

#### Does every person need to hear the gospel before Christ comes?
No.

#### Is the time of Christ's coming fixed, or can we change it?
It's fixed. We can't change the time it happens,
we can just hasten the preparation.

#### When does the Millenium begin? Why will it begin?
When Christ comes, people will be able

#### Return of the Ten Tribes?
Overall conversion of everyone.

#### False Christs and false prophets?
Don't chase after false doctrines.

#### Steadfast
Remains steadfast (not perfect, flawless,
sinless) - continually trying to learn and grow on
the path

The Lord can trust you and your leaders can trust
you

#### Elect
Not just some random collection of people--elect
*according to the covenant*.

Will receive particular blessings (even if they do
suffer from what's happening at the time).

#### Prepared
We don't know exactly when he's coming.

We need to be ready at any time. We could go to
Him before He comes to us.

Teaches parables of readiness:
  * Fig Tree
  * Servants
  * Ten Virgins
  * Talents
  * Sheep and Goats

### Joseph Smith-Matthew
The JST of Matthew 24. Enough significant changes
that it was made into its own book and canonized.

JSM rearranges the verses so that it is clear
which verses are talking about the destruction of
the temple and which verses are talking about the
Second Coming
