---
title: "Notes: Oct. 21, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - luke
published_date: "2021-10-21 18:51:06 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Parable of Barren Fig Tree
We are given mercy, however, if nothing changes,
there will still come a judgment that ends up in
us being condemned. God's not going to change his
rules just for us.

#### Context
Talks about two instances
1. Some people go to sacrifice, Pilate kills them
   for some reason. Are they sinners above
   everyone else? No. You need to repent, or else
   you will perish.
2. Some people build a tower, it collapses and
   kills 18 people. Were they the worst sinners?
   No. You need to repent or else you will perish.

Then leads into the parable about repentance. 

### Parable of Unjust Steward
Steward - in charge of business affairs of the
rich man

Rich man heard accusations that his steward was
wasting his goods.

"What am I hearing? What are you doing with my
money. I need an accounting, and you may get
fired."

Steward: "What do I do? I can't (won't) dig; I
would be ashamed to dig. What do I do?"

"I know, I'm going to lower the debt of some
debtors in order to gain friends"

Secretly works with the debtors to change their
contracts, establishes two friends.

The rich man commends the steward for his
*wisdom*, not for his dishonesty. He commends him
for his prudence in acting quickly to make the
best of his situation.

Sometimes the children of the world do a better
job of planning for the future than the children
of Light.

While it is important to trust God, we need to
plan out our salvation and not just let the world
take its course in us.

Therefore, make friends for yourself in this
world, maybe using money (mammon) in order to have
peace in this world. Let God take care off the
judgement.

If we are faithful in worldly things, we will be
faithful in greater things.

### Parable of Rich Man & Lazarus
Rich man is often referred to as "Dives".

Rich man lives richly, poor man lives poorly.

Both die, Lazarus goes to Abraham, rich man goes
to hell.

Rich man wants Lazarus to go and warn his kin.

"There have been many prophets who have warned you
and them, you haven't listened. Why would they
listen to one who was raised from the dead?"

Don't procrastinate the day of your repentance.

### Zacchaeus
Jesus heads up to Jerusalem through Jericho.

Z-guy was lead publican, very rich. Wants to see
Jesus, too short. Climbs a tree, may seem silly,
but he doesn't care. *He wants to see Jesus!*

He doesn't care about the crowd, what they may
think, how he may look. *He wants to see Jesus!*

Jesus calls him down from the tree and invites
himself to Z-guy's house. Z-guy is happy to have
him.

Everyone thinks Jesus is eating with *the chief of
the publicans!*

Z-guy gives 1/2 his income to the poor, refunds 4x
what he takes dishonestly.

#### Lessons
Z-guy goes out on a limb to see Jesus.

"Disposition of the heart is symbolized by the
disposition of pessesions.

We shouldn't judge a man by his profession.

Don't let others stand in your way to God.

Are you ready to be a "fool for Christ" like
Z-guy? Or does the crowd hold you back?
