---
title: "Havruta #1"
published_date: "2021-10-06 03:17:32 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
tags:
  - homework
  - havruta
---
### Havruta Worksheet I
*Matthew 17-20 (October 5, 2021)*

Havruta should be done with a partner, but then
each partner must individually upload their
responses to Learning Suite. For questions 1-8 you
can copy and share the same answers if you
wish. Questions 9-12, however, require individual
responses. Remember when reading Havruta style
that you read a verse, stop and discuss, then
rotate reading another verse, stop and discuss,
etc. until you’re finished with selected
passage. Note: you should read Matthew chapters
17-20, but not all of it will be done Havruta
style, only selected passages noted below.

#### Partern Questions

1. **(Read Matthew 17:1-8 with your partner and
   discuss) Whenever God introduces Christ he
   always says, “This is my beloved Son, hear
   him.” Why is this important?**

   Heavenly Father’s declaration gives credibility to
   Christ being the Son of God, proof that they are
   separate beings, faith building experiences for
   Jesus Christ, shows that Heavenly Father speaks
   through Jesus Christ, and that it's only through
   Jesus Christ that we can be saved.

2. **(Read Matthew 17:14-21 with your partner &
   discuss) Why does Christ choose the imagery of
   a grain of mustard seed & moving a mountain?
   What do you know about these two objects?**
   
   A mustard seed is very small, while a mountain is
   really big. Thus, he shows that even the smallest
   amount of faith can do amazing things.

3. **(Read Matthew 18:1-6, & 10 with your partner
   & discuss) What does it mean to humble oneself
   as a little child? Why are those who do this
   the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? What are
   other characteristics associated with children
   that Christ might also want us to develop?**

   Children trust that parents know best, so they are
   willing to trust them when the parents give them
   advice. They are teachable and don’t pretend like
   they know everything. They also don’t put
   themselves above their friends and they’re very
   inclusive. Those that become as little children
   will also attain their purity. That purity is what
   is important in the kingdom of heaven, and it’s
   what will make someone “the greatest”. Some other
   child-like characteristics are love and
   selflessness, their desire to share. They also are
   very simple. Their communication is very simple
   and kind.

4. **(Read Matthew 18:21-35 with your partner &
   discuss) What is the symbolism of Christ
   commanding us to forgive seventy times seven
   the brother who sins against us? How is
   forgiveness connected to the parable of the
   debtor?**

   The answer to the first question is that we
   need to forgive all those who wrong us, even if
   the offense is repeated by the offender. God
   forgives us when we come to him and truly
   repent. He always forgives us when we practice
   repentance. Therefore we need to show the same
   mercy by forgiving those who have wronged us.

5. **What would you say are some of the main
   general themes in the whole of chapter 18?**
   
   Some of the themes are loving your neighbor,
   humility, and purity.


6. **(Read Matthew 19:16-29 with your partner &
   discuss) When the rich young man asks Jesus,
   “What lack I yet?” instead of telling him to go
   and obtain more, he tells him to sacrifice all
   that he has. Why does he do this? Any
   application to us today?**
   
   When the young man asks “What lack I yet?”
   Jesus tells him what he lacks, but what he
   lacks comes at a price. What he lacks is
   treasures in heaven, and the price of that is
   all his worldly wealth. Thus, Jesus is
   explaining that the young man has to sacrifice
   his love of the world in order to show his
   desire to truly attain the kingdom of
   heaven. The same goes for us. If we want to
   attain eternal life, we can’t be attached to
   the things of the world. It’s not bad to have
   material goods, but if we love that more than
   God, we can’t attain the kingdom of heaven.

7. **(Read Matthew 19:30-20:16 with your partner &
   discuss) What does it mean, “many that are
   first shall be last; and the last shall be
   first”? How does the parable of the laborers in
   the vineyard illustrate this and how does this
   apply to us today? How does this parable fit
   with the notion of God’s fairness?**
   
   That God is fair with all those who decide to
   come to him, Those that chose to follow Jesus
   Christ in the beginning will receive the same
   reward as those who choose to follow him
   towards the end. This principle is illustrated
   by laborers that ask the master for work at
   different points in the day, but at the end of
   the day they all receive the same amount of
   money. This applies to us today in the fact
   that there are many members of the church who
   have been members there whole lives and many
   who join the Church late in their lives, but
   all of us are promised eternal life if we labor
   all the day long. It fits in the sense that God
   is perfectly fair and that he desires that all
   return to His presence one day.
   
8. **Write a suggestion for another pericope that
   could become a part of this assignment in the
   future from this reading and offer possible
   questions to help inspire discussion about
   them.**
   
   Maybe another suggestion could be Matthew
   18:6-14, which Christ uses to explain offending
   others and the need not to cause offense. It
   may also be referring to sin, but I believe
   that both could be explained using this
   story. As well these verses talk about the lost
   sheep.
   
   Questions: Why does the Lord compare the act of
   removing body parts to removing sin or
   offensiveness? How can the story of removing
   body parts that cause offense, relate to the
   lost sheep and how “the Son of man is come to
   save that which was lost”?

#### Individual Responses

9. **Share 2 verses from today’s reading that
   stood out to you and explain why.**
   
   I really liked the verses about the young rich
   man (Matthew 19:20-21). As we discussed the
   question “what lack I yet?” and Jesus’
   response, I began to realize that in everything
   Jesus asks us to do, he isn’t just asking us to
   give up everything with nothing in return. He’s
   giving us the price tag for the “treasures in
   heaven”, the greatest of which is eternal life.
   
   Other verses that touched me were Matthew
   18:23-35. Reading it today, it struck me the
   pettiness of some of the “debts” for which we
   “require payment”. Christ suffered so much
   because of me and the sins that I commit
   against others, but he freely forgave me. Yet,
   I feel I am justified in being angry with and
   holding a grudge against someone who made a
   simple thoughtless comment. That has no logic
   to it whatsoever. That’s pride and selfishness.
   

10. **Who is your study partner and what was
    something your partner shared that you found
    insightful or hadn’t considered before?**
	
	My study partner was Jakob Carver. One thing
    that he shared that I thought was insightful
    was when we were discussing becoming like
    little children. He mentioned that children
    that die before the age of 8 are going to go
    directly to the celestial kingdom, and
    mentioned that the reason they’d inherit it is
    because of their purity. That lead into a
    brief discussion of how the greatest in the
    kingdom of God are those that are the
    purest. That was something that I hadn’t
    thought about before in that sense.

11. **What worked well or didn’t work well in your
    Havruta session?**
	
	I felt like we were a little pressed for
    time. We didn’t have time to discuss many of
    the verses in depth, especially as we neared
    the end. However, I still appreciated the new
    perspective that I received from the
    activity.

12. **Do you feel like your Havruta session was
    given equal effort by both partners?**
	
	Yes
