---
title: "Notes: Sept. 16, 2021"
published_date: "2021-09-16 18:51:21 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
tags:
  - notes
  - mark
---
### Announcements

#### Scripture Study Journal Check-In
Due tonight

#### Quiz
Opens at 1pm today

Closes tomorrow at midnight

### Lecture

#### Messianic Secret
Christ isn't very clear that he is the Christ. He
says it indirectly, but when people proclaim it,
he tells them to keep it quiet.

He wants them to gain their own testimony. He
doesn't want them to tell others (with the
exception of Legion).

See Mark 8:30

> Jesus is the only one to use the term "Son of
> Man"

After Peter confesses that Jesus is the Christ,
Jesus explains that he is going to die and rise
again, but the apostles don't quite understand
what he means.

It's in the last week that the Messianic Secret
gets out (ex. Triumphal Entry). He has finished
his ministry, completed all he's been asked to do.

##### Why was Legion told to tell everyone?
He was in Decapolis (Ten Cities). Christ wasn't
going to go and preach there, so he let Legion
spread the word.

**Decapolis** - Gentiles (explains why there's a
bunch of pigs)

#### Corban
His disciples weren't washing their hands before
eating, and they were criticized for it.

> **IMPORTANT:** Is Jesus against the law? *NO!*
> He *gave* it. But he is going to criticize them
> about the oral law.

There are two laws: the written law and the oral
law.

The written law is given by God, the oral law is
the interpretation of the law or the tradition.

Christ gives the example of "Honor your father and
your mother". When parents come and ask for money,
they say "My stuff is *corban*, so I can't share
it.

**Corban:** It's been dedicated to the temple and
God

#### Peter's Confession
Peter confesses that Jesus is the Christ, the Son
of God.

Confession took place in Ceasarea Phillipi (named
for Herod Phillip). There are some powerful
waterfalls, streams, and springs.

The water comes from Mount Hermon. There is a cave
from where the water used to come. They built
temples for gods there (because water = life).

In this context, Jesus says "In comparison to all
this, who do people say I am?"

The response: "A prophet, John the Baptist, Elias,
etc."

"But whom say *ye* that I am?"

Peter: "Thou art the Christ."

#### Legion
A man is possessed by a lot of spirits. He's
frightening. They try to bind him and chain him,
he breaks free. He probably doesn't want to have
it himself.

The spirits know exactly who Jesus is: the "Son of
the Most High God."

He lets them go into the pigs nearby.

There *are* evil spirits that can possess us, and
we need to not let them in.

#### Bartimaeus
Only Mark notes the name of the blind man.

This is the only instance (before Triumphal Entry)
that Christ is called the Son of David.

Jesus asks "What do you want?"

We all have desires, and we can express them to
God.

The crowd tried to stop him, but he didn't stop
trying to call Christ.
