---
title: "Notes: Nov. 9, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - the-final-week
published_date: "2021-11-09 19:51:14 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Sadducees, Marriage, & Resurrection
Don't believe in resurrection

Does Jesus believe in resurrection?

Levirate marriage

The woman marries seven brothers, who is she
married to in the next life?

They're trying to point out the ridiculousness of
marriage. The initial question is about
resurrection.

"Neither marry, nor are given in marriage" -
gender-specific roles in the *process* of
marriage - therefore, after resurrection, no
marriages will happen

Marriages *can* continue, but only if there is a
sealing power that exists beyond the grave.

A marriage has to be properly sealed by the
*proper authority* (ratified by the Holy Spirit of
Promise). They also have to keep that covenant
their whole lives.

### How do I know I've found the 'right one'?
1. Attracted to them
2. Make you want to be better - the more you can
   align spiritual habits, the better
3. Be yourself
4. Enjoy similar things - need to find things you
   enjoy doing together
5. Overcome bad or difficult situations - you need
   to see them at bad or imperfect times, can you
   work with that?
6. Your choice - don't feel pressured by anyone to
   marry a certain person
7. Wanting to always be together - you enjoy each
   other's company
8. Spiritual promptings - live worthy, make it a
   matter of prayer, ensure that you have similar
   spiritual habits
9. Shared goals
10. Spiritual commitment - make sure they are
    spiritually committed to the Lord

### Greatest Commandment

### Tribute

### Pharisees
