---
title: "Notes: Oct. 12, 2021"
published_date: "2021-10-12 18:51:09 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
tags:
  - notes
  - luke
---
### Luke
Non-Jewish origins, may have been a "God-fearer"

God-fearers were attracted to the Jewish religion,
but didn't want to fully convert for one of two
reasons:
  1. Don't want to eat Kosher
  2. Don't want to be circumcised

Called a "beloved physician"

Companion to apostles, specifically Paul ("we"
passages in Acts)

First church historian (Luke + Acts = 1/3 NT)

Presents Christ as universal Savior (genealogy
back to Adam)

Concerned with "least, last, and lost"

Longest of the four gospels

Directed to Theophilus (1:1-4), but audience is
Gentiles

Alternates between Mark and non-Mark passages

Roughly 60% unique

### Women

Women played an important role because they
"ministered unto him of their substance".

A few named specifically, but there are "many
others".

#### Mary
Mother of Jesus

Sword shall pierce your heart as well. She
suffered a lot because of her son.

Of all the women, she was selected to be the
mother of the Son of God. She was
*foreordained*. We should honor and revere her,
even if we don't worship her.

Story of Mary (9-12 is post-scriptural)
1. Birth of Mary
   * Mary wasn't born with original sin
     (immaculate conception)
2. Presented
3. Betrothal to Joseph
4. Annunciation
5. Visits Elizabeth
   * Helps Mary know she isn't alone
   * Elizabeth knows before Mary says anything
   * Elizabeth is like a mentor
   * Gets her away from village
6. Nativity
7. Wedding of Canna
   * Mary plays mediator to Jesus
   * Changes water to wine
8. At the cross
9. Holding his body
10. Assumption of Mary
11. Coronation of Mary
12. Mother of the church

#### Mary Magdalene
Had seven devils (7 means completion? Jesus
completely cast out the devils?)

Comes from Magdala (a fishing village on the
shores of Galilee)

She probably experienced her own form of
Gethsemane and was healed by the Savior. She ranks
high with Mary and Eve.

#### Widow of Nain
Nain is *not* next to Capernum

#### "Sinner"

### Jesus returns to Nazareth
