---
title: "Nov. 18, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - the-final-week
published_date: "2021-11-18 19:50:37 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Gethsemane
Christ was the only one willing and able to
perform the Atonement.

We can't *not* die. Only Jesus had the power to
*willingly* give up his life for us.

He's the only one that could take the sins of all
time upon himself.

He is an infinite being.

Christ's love for us allows justice and mercy to
meet.

We need to emphasize both Gethsemane *and* the
cross.

None of the gospels mention that the suffering in
Gethsemane is the Atonement.

#### Sore Amazed
Astonished, awestruck, sore amazed

Though he knew what he needed to go through, he
hadn't yet experienced it.

Wine press - pressed out his blood

Extreme guilt - multiply that by everybody -
multiply that by infinity

Infinity is beyond our mortal capacity to understand.

#### Bitter Cup
"Remove this cup from me! Nevertheless, not my
will but thine be done."

*cup* - expresses a poisonous or bitter potion

This caused a lot of pain for the Father as well
as the Son.

### Atonement Models
There are certain models, but none of them are
able to capture the entire Atonement.

* Judicial - justified through Atonement (Alma to
  Corianton)
* Participationist - unify with Christ (Paul)
* Transformation of humanity - "second adam", new
  beginning
* Exchange - Christ's life for ours
* Reconciliation - restore our relationship with
  God
* Sacrifice - Christ is the great sacrifice
* Ransom & Redemption - Christ pays for us
* Healing - Christ restores wounded
