---
title: "Notes: Oct. 19, 2021"
tags:
  - notes
  - luke
published_date: "2021-10-19 18:46:58 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
---
### Announcements
* Quiz #3 on Luke 1-19 - Thursday and Friday
* Spiritual prompting tracking write-up #1 - next
  Tuesday 

### Lost Parables
Why use multiple parables to share the same
message?

Shows different aspects of the lost

#### Degrees of Lostness
Lost coin:
  * Was lost
  * Didn't know it was lost
  * Didn't know the way back

Lost sheep:
  * Was lost
  * Knew it was lost
  * Didn't know the way back

Lost son:
  * Was lost
  * Knew it was lost
  * Knew the way back

#### Setting and Impetus
We need to be careful, don't reject others just
because they're sinners, but don't immerse
yourself in sin because that will draw you away.

Jesus was willing to associate with all. He ate
with them all.

#### Responses
  * Lost coin: rejoices with neighbors
  * Lost sheep: rejoices with friends and
    neighbors
  * Lost son: rejoices with a celebration

#### Counting
  * Lost coin: missing a coin
  * Lost sheep: missing a sheep
  * Lost son: father counts people at the party of
    the son's return, notices that one of his sons
    is still missing. He goes out and talks to
    him.
	
	Entreated his son, his son replies, "I've
    never done wrong, but you never gave me
    anything. *Your son* went and sinned, now
    you're killing the fatted calf for him!"
	
	Father reminds him, "All I have is yours! Your
    status doesn't change!" Then says "But *your
    brother* was dead and is alive again!"
	
	(See *A robe, a ring, and a fatted calf* by
    Elder Holland)

#### Sheep
Sometimes we have cases when we wander off in
search of *success*. It's not specifically bad,
but it causes them to lose track of the gospel.

#### Coin
Some may wander because of a careless remark, or
lack of efforts by someone in the church. It can
especially be a problem when we are content with
those that are there, rather than thinking about
those who are not.

#### Son
This is a misuse of free agency. We can't do
anything except hope and pray that the person
"comes to himself".
