---
title: "Notes: Sept 23, 2021"
published_date: "2021-09-23 18:51:17 +0000"
layout: default.liquid
is_draft: false
tags:
  - notes
  - matthew
---
# Sermon on the Mount

* Havruta
* Beatitudes
* Antithesis

## Setting
He's sitting on a mountain, we don't know which.

He's teaching on a mountain in order to draw a
parallel with Moses:
  * lawgiver
  * both go up on a mount to give the law
  * five books = five sermons
  
President Benson: It would be good to periodically
review the teachings of the Sermon on the Mount.

## Havruta

A Jewish way of studying (means "friendship"). You
and another person study together, make sure that
what they are discussing is inline with the text.

Ecclesiastes 4:9-10
Also "Iron sharpeneth iron"

Similar to pair programming...

Each partner is responsible for his own learning,
but also his partner's learning.

*Process* more important than *product*

*Expand understanding* rather than finding a
*final interpretation*

*Develop critical thinking skills*

### Core practices

1. *Listening* and *articulating*
2. *Wondering* and *focusing*
3. *Supporting* and *challenging*

Balance between partners is *key!*

## Beatitudes
*beatus* - blessed  
*makarios* - happy  

One question is what is the relation between the
different beatitudes.

## Summary of Sermon (Chapter 5)
1. The Beatitudes (3-12)
2. Salt and Light (13-16)
3. Law and the Prophets (17-20)
4. Antitheses (21-48)

## Antitheses
Internal Principles vs. External Commandment

Jesus is helping the people to understand
principles, not just commandments.

Jesus wants people not to *do*, but to *become*.

Laws present thesis; Jesus presents thesis *+
antithesis*

"The law says that, I say that *plus* this" -
Terrestrial law vs. Celestial law

"Be ye therefore perfect": *perfect* means whole
or complete

Also can be seen in context of pericope: love
enemies = perfect

See also Sermon in Luke (6:27-36)
